We want to define the adjunction of UW and FW, where W is a comonad and (Wa, f) is a W-coalgebra consisting of a carrier a and a coevaluator f (coherence conditions assumed).

The left adjoint UW is a forgetful functor that forgets coevaluation:

UW :: (Wa, f) -> a

Given a natural transformation δ that corresponds to the comonad duplicate, the right adjoint FW is a cofree functor that generates cofree W-coalgebras:

FW :: a -> (Wa, δa)

The unit is:

η :: I -> FW * UW

We want to calculate the component at (Wa, f) of this transformation. On the right side of the morphism, UW takes the Wa out of (Wa, f), and FW generates (W(Wa), δa) from Wa. On the left side, the identity functor gives us (Wa, f). So η :: (Wa, f) -> (W(Wa), δa), which is a homomorphism of W-coalgebras. Since Wf * f at a is W(Wa) and δ * f at a is also W(Wa) (see diagram), the component of η at (Wa, f) is f.

The counit is:

ε :: UW * FW -> I

We want to calculate the component a of this transformation. On the right side of the morphism, the identity functor I gives us an a. On the left side, FW at a generates (Wa, δa), from which UW picks Wa. So ε :: Wa -> a. This corresponds to the comonad extract natural transformation.

To complete the definition of the adjunction between UW and FW, we also need to check the triangular identities. By analogy with the T-algebra from section 25.1, the first one is that δa * Wεa = idWa and the second one is that f * εa = ida (see diagram). Continuing the analogy, these hold because of the counit law for the comonad W and the definition of the W-coalgebra (Wa, f), respectively. I don't see exactly how this relates to triangular identities as introduced in section 18.1, though. How are these morphisms identities for UW and FW by application of η and then ε (in components)?

Now let's see that this adjunction gives rise to a comonad via the endofunctor UW * FW. The action of FW on an a gives (Wa, δa), from which UW picks Wa. In other words, UWa * FWa is Wa, which means that UW * FW is W (a comonad).

Following the template of section 25.1, we have that the unit of the adjunction produces comonadic duplication through the following formula:

δ = UW * η * FW

We want to calculate the component of δ at a. FW takes a to the algebra (Wa, δa). That brings us to the factor in the middle, η, at (Wa, δa). As shown above, this is the coevaluator, in this case δa. Finally, the forgetful functor has nothing to forget, so we end up with δa. So, indeed, the δ obtained from the adjunction is the same as the δ of the original comonad W.
